So let's go to insert,
now you're probably thinking insert,
it's just I right, [LAUGH] no, there's
a lot of ways to go into insert mode.
And it's quite fantastic, in fact, this is
actually one of my favorite things about
vim is how many different ways
you can go into insert mode.
I know this just a sounding ridic, as I
say it out loud, I'm like, am I really
saying this, out loud, yes, I am, I am
saying this out loud, insert mode, I know.
Like I said,
it's gonna be shocking how many available
ways you can go into insert mode.
And I'm only gonna give you a few of them
here, because if I give too many now,
you're gonna lose,
there's some really good ones later.
All right, so let's curl it in and let's
go, so now we're going to do insert mode,
so this is where it gets real exciting,
right?
So let's use j to go all the way
down j to the I, all right, so I,
and then use w to kind of go into it so
you kind of can see where we're at.
So now know notice that my
cursor is thick, right?,
it's a thick cursor,
I actually prefer it this way.
So when I go into visual when I go
into insert mode actually maintain
the thickness of the cursor, just
an old habit, it's hard to make a die.
I don't want it to die, but you can make
it however you want, so when I press I,
notice that my cursor goes to the left.
Up to the left, so I got a mirror
myself to the left of my cursor,
right, that's unusual.
And when I press escape,
notice that my cursor moved back one, so
if I were to go, I escape,
I would slowly walk myself back.
So that is how insert effectively works,
now notice what happens when I press a
instead, a opens the cursor to the right.
Now this is a small distinction, but
it's actually pretty darn
useful in a lot of situations.
Often you'll be off by one and
probably in your current editor,
which I'm just going to assume is Nano.
You probably have to press like
an arrow key to go over, and
then you have to start typing and
that just is kind of annoying, right?
You don't want to have
to be in that position,
it is really nice just to press a and
e go over.
Now, a and I are very important because
they're used in other commands as well,
and we'll get to them and
they mean effectively the same thing.
Means on the inside a means
on the outside, all right, so
let's go down, and
here's the first example of it.
I want to go into insert mode, but
I want to go at the first non
whitespace character in this line.
Well, I can use shift I, there we go,
I just walked right into the first non
whitespace character at
the beginning of this line.
That's pretty cool, right, so
I'm going to, escape, insert mode, and
we're gonna go down but before we go down,
I'm gonna go back so I'm at the beginning.
We're gonna go down now and now shift a,
I am assuming most people can guess what's
going to happen here, which is you're
going to now go to the end of the line.
So when I hit shift a I'll go
to the end of the line, but
not just the end of the line,
if there's any additional
trailing whitespace then it will
also go on the end of that.
So unlike I which only
goes to the first and
non whitespace character a goes
always to the end of the line.
So you got to kind of keep that in your
head a little bit, but that is how capital
I and capital a works, and trust me
capital a is actually incredibly useful.
I don't use capital I that often,
but capital A,
you will always find yourself needing
to go to the end of the line.
And this is just something you're gonna
have to either use today with your mouse
just to simply move it over or
use the arrow keys to try to get it right.
And that's often annoying, I'm sure
there's some sort of sweet VS code
shortcut that I don't know about
because I don't use VS code anyways, so
let's escape insert mode and
go down one more line.
So now we're gonna get into the o's now
o was just mentioned o is fantastic,
o is a glorious way to
go into insert mode.
In fact, it's one of my favorite,
okay, when you press o,
It makes a new line respects the indenting
of the language that you're in and
puts you into insert mode.
So if you have a function that's
defined by two scoreless and
then you press o it will properly indent
you into that line, that is very.
That is when I learned about I think I
might have taken the day off Just patting
myself on the back.
I was so excited, it was like the best it
was just so great, I know this is fairly
ridiculous to be that excited about going
into insert mode but it really does just,
I love these type of shortcuts that
just make small things faster.
All right, you just don't have to
do as many little things, alright,
let's leave insert mode.
Let's go down and let's try capital O,
if capital P does what it does,
I'm assuming you can guess
what capital O does.
Yes, it takes your current line,
shifts it down,
respects indenting and
puts you into insert mode.
That is also glorious, all right,
I use it all the time, and probably are my
most frequently used ways to go into
insert mode and then maybe capital A and
then eventually I, but I don't use I all
that often in comparison to the rest.
All right, so play around for a second
kind of feel it make sure you kind of
understand, at least have the mental model
that i goes on this side of the cursor,
a goes on this side of the cursor.
I capitalize goes on
this side of the line,
A capitalize goes on
this side of the line.
Awesome, so that's insert mode,
I didn't give you an exhaustive list
cause I don't wanna do too much.
This is effectively the basic commands,
at this point you could be equivalent
in editing text as you are today.
You might be pretty slow because
you don't know all the commands,
they don't feel normal.
They don't feel natural, but this is kind
of like the minimum bar, and this is why
them gets that super steep an initial
curve is because when you're doing it.
You have to kind of know so
much Just even basically at a text, and
that can be extremely daunting for
a lot of people.
I know it's overwhelming for
those that are brand new,
this is probably a lot of information,
but let's just keep going.
All right, we're gonna keep going, we're
gonna just keep on shoving in information
until we feel like we're gonna explode.
It's kind of like college,
just not as fun, all right, awesome,
let's get out of this and let's go down.
All right, we've already kind of
recap we've done most of this,
I did sneak ZZ in there.
I wasn't actually going to shows easy
at all because I don't use it ever and
there's a reason why you
don't have to use it, but
I thought it would be a lot of fun
to just kind of make it happen.
That's 16 total motions that I showed you,
there's a lot of motions,
there's a lot of things
to keep in your head.
Today, you will likely
have to remind yourself,
I want to move down, what do I press?
I press J, hopefully we can conquer J and
K, number one, and
then hopefully you can
conquer some other things.
And also looking at my list I realized
I forgot to put in U for Undo,
which means I actually
showed you 17 commands.
I just didn't even remember it myself,
I know fun times for everybody.